Caption: hopefully this afternoon you're in here
Caption: for a session on accessibility if you
Caption: wanted something other than
Caption: accessibility then you're in the wrong
Caption: room
Caption: I very much like to thank the sponsors
Caption: who've made today possible and I hope
Caption: that today you've all benefited from the
Caption: conference next to me is my fabulous
Caption: sign language interpreter Christy
Caption: I've asked Christy to come and to sign
Caption: for me today because I think it's
Caption: important for a number of reasons I
Caption: don't know if anyone here is
Caption: hearing-impaired however there could be
Caption: as this presentation is being videotaped
Caption: it's going to be available online and
Caption: we've got no idea what the needs are of
Caption: the users that are going to be watching
Caption: that so it's important and that's
Caption: something that we're going to be
Caption: discussing a little bit more about the
Caption: importance of everybody
Caption: my name is Vivian Conway and I'm the
Caption: director of web key IT where
Caption: accessibility consultants and that's all
Caption: that we do and believe me that's a big
Caption: job on its own I'd prefer that you don't
Caption: try to take a lot of notes today I've
Caption: intentionally made these slides quite
Caption: text-heavy for a reason because they are
Caption: going to be available there's a lot of
Caption: links there's a lot of information in
Caption: the slides I'll be talking to them not
Caption: reading them but I want you to be able
Caption: to access this information and to go and
Caption: do some research yourself and just see
Caption: what you think of the field of
Caption: accessibility
Caption: why do we label people as having
Caption: disabilities or even worse why do we
Caption: talk about disabled people today I want
Caption: to challenge your thinking
Caption: I want to complete I want you to
Caption: completely change the way you think how
Caption: you view the work you do and the
Caption: services that you're providing
Caption: I thought people don't have disabilities
Caption: every person has a unique set of
Caption: capabilities or abilities it's us who
Caption: disabled people by putting obstacles in
Caption: their path to hold on to that thought
Caption: see here a list of the things that I'm
Caption: thinking hoping to cover today but most
Caption: importantly my purpose today is to
Caption: challenge your current thinking I want
Caption: to inspire you to create for inclusivity
Caption: I want you to understand what digital
Caption: accessibility is all about and I want to
Caption: help good developers become great
Caption: developers
Caption: when we look at the reasons why people
Caption: start to address accessibility there's
Caption: three main reasons that come up first of
Caption: all people think well it's the right
Caption: thing to do it it's the moral
Caption: high-ground it's a good thing to do
Caption: other people think it's the smart thing
Caption: to do they want to get the extra
Caption: customers into their business or into
Caption: their website that they feel that
Caption: they've been missing up to now
Caption: some people would say that you could
Caption: skip the first two of these two reasons
Caption: the fact that it's the right thing to do
Caption: in the smart thing to do but that you
Caption: can't skip the third one that it's the
Caption: law I would say that you can actually if
Caption: you wanted you could skip all three of
Caption: these but it would be at your company's
Caption: peril
Caption: the disability sector is going through a
Caption: lot of review at the moment and things
Caption: people with disabilities are becoming
Caption: more and more aware of their rights of
Caption: their equal rights to access in for
Caption: information
Caption: litigation for violation of
Caption: accessibility is increasing in Australia
Caption: it is law you can be sued we don't want
Caption: you to be and we don't want to use a
Caption: stick that's not the whole idea we would
Caption: like you to buy into the ideas of
Caption: accessibility because you want to do it
Caption: and that's important in the next section
Caption: we're going to be looking at is actually
Caption: what the requirements are and it's kind
Caption: of funny because I know that you guys
Caption: want to know this because when you were
Caption: voting for presentations there was a
Caption: couple of presentations that I proposed
Caption: and one sounded really really fun it was
Caption: about accessibility but it was a lot
Caption: more fun you guys voted to know what the
Caption: requirements are for you and I think
Caption: that's important to notice that
Caption: developers want to know what you should
Caption: be doing and how to do it
Caption: in Australia across Australia there's
Caption: federal government requirements and it
Caption: came in with something called the
Caption: national transition strategy now each of
Caption: the states bought in to the requirements
Caption: and each of them set up different dates
Caption: and different levels that they would
Caption: meet each of the dates the Australian
Caption: federal government mandated that all of
Caption: their websites were to be compliant to
Caption: what we'll call WIC egg and I'll get
Caption: back to that in a minute
Caption: by December 2014 can you guess how many
Caption: actually were
Caption: absolutely zero even the main federal
Caption: governments who were putting forth the
Caption: legislation one thing is for certain not
Caption: meeting wicked to two level double-a
Caption: will leave you at risk there were some
Caption: questions in the last session about risk
Caption: you will be at risk if you do not meet
Caption: these guidelines
Caption: the guidelines as I mentioned are the
Caption: web content accessibility guidelines and
Caption: they're currently at version 2.0
Caption: now these guidelines are the child of
Caption: the w3c the World Wide Web Consortium
Caption: these are the people that make standards
Caption: your HTML etc is all your accessibility
Caption: guidelines they all come through w3c
Caption: which is a member organization now an
Caption: important thing to note is that wicked
Caption: to two level double-a has now become an
Caption: ISO standard so organizations that are
Caption: not familiar with wicked and w3c they do
Caption: understand ISO and that's the reason why
Caption: it was adopted as an ISO standard
Caption: many of you provide development work for
Caption: organizations who spend a lot of time
Caption: and money making sure their
Caption: organizations are ISO compliant in other
Caption: areas for example their policies their
Caption: procedures there are health and safety
Caption: their finances they spend a lot of money
Caption: being in compliance with standards
Caption: one thing is for certain that they
Caption: understand ISIL but they don't know that
Caption: there is an ISO standard that applies to
Caption: accessibility that iso standard is
Caption: wicked - two double-a you don't have to
Caption: buy that iso standard you can download
Caption: wicked - and see it with no cost
Caption: whatsoever because iso standards are
Caption: expensive so who and what is covered by
Caption: the guidelines first of all your
Caption: internet your internet connection that's
Caption: covered by the guidelines your intranet
Caption: so internally so it's not just the
Caption: external stuff facing to the public
Caption: it's what's facing your staff as well
Caption: and we'll be looking at that as to why
Caption: that is in just a minute but that's
Caption: covered as well also your extra nets any
Caption: supplier connections that you have any
Caption: documents that you need an internet
Caption: connection to download are covered by
Caption: this so anything you need an internet
Caption: connection to get is covered by them
Caption: including your email so say goodbye to
Caption: the pretty pink signature line that
Caption: you've been using not going to work
Caption: so who needs to be compliant is this
Caption: just for government is this just
Caption: something that you know federal
Caption: government have to do this but nobody
Caption: else no that's not the case the case is
Caption: every individual and organization that
Caption: has digital material that has a base in
Caption: Australia is covered by Australia's
Caption: regulations these are international
Caption: regulations there's almost nowhere in
Caption: the world that doesn't require these
Caption: guidelines to be met so everybody from
Caption: Joe's garage to the Prime Minister is
Caption: covered by them have you ever used a
Caption: website that's really really unfriendly
Caption: tried to find specific content and you
Caption: couldn't if you had a physical shop
Caption: would you hide one of your products
Caption: behind something now of course not that
Caption: would be stupid you wouldn't expect to
Caption: be able to sell it if you hid it would
Caption: you so you want to make sure that your
Caption: customers are able to reach your content
Caption: it only takes one unhappy customer to
Caption: report you to the Australian Human
Caption: Rights Commission believe me having a
Caption: complaint against you for human rights
Caption: violation is not really a very good
Caption: career move
Caption: it only takes one of these customers to
Caption: tell all their friends that they
Caption: couldn't choose your website again not a
Caption: great idea
Caption: Australian Human Rights Commission
Caption: administer the Disability Discrimination
Caption: Act
Caption: it's the Disability Discrimination Act
Caption: that you can get sued under that is the
Caption: legislation that covers it most people
Caption: as a said mensch think that this only
Caption: applies to government and this isn't new
Caption: news these requirements have been there
Caption: since July 1st 2010 is where we first
Caption: started bring this in but it's been
Caption: around for a while and the Australian
Caption: Human Rights Commission are the ones
Caption: that administer the Act so they decide
Caption: whether you will be sued
Caption: we don't have an adversarial type of
Caption: system the way they do in the United
Caption: States if somebody has a problem with
Caption: your website there they simply sue you
Caption: and a lot of that is funded by the
Caption: American Federation for the blind who
Caption: have very deep pockets here we have more
Caption: of a mediated approach so if somebody
Caption: has a problem with your website they
Caption: come to you and they say I'm having a
Caption: problem with your website if you fix it
Caption: problem solved if you don't and refused
Caption: to then they can go to the Australian
Caption: Human Rights Commission and they can
Caption: make a complaint against you the
Caption: Australian Human Rights Commission will
Caption: then come to you and say hey listen
Caption: you've had a complaint from a user
Caption: they're having problems accessing your
Caption: website what are you going to do about
Caption: it
Caption: if you say toughen up don't care then
Caption: off you go to court what they will do is
Caption: they will give the person leave to sue
Caption: you civilly and they will assist them
Caption: where it looks like a good case and
Caption: we'll be coming up with one of those
Caption: good cases very shortly
Caption: oh I'll go back to that slide for one
Caption: second an important thing to note and
Caption: the reason why I put this particular
Caption: slide in is notice the comment we see if
Caption: this works yes here we are this
Caption: requirement applies to any of individual
Caption: or organization developing a website so
Caption: nobody gets to get out of jail free card
Caption: on this one
Caption: so as I mentioned they administer the
Caption: guidelines they they advise you to get
Caption: expert advice so it's one of these
Caption: things that when I talk about
Caption: accessibility I remind people that if
Caption: I'm driving down the car driving in my
Caption: car down the road at 200 kilometres an
Caption: hour and the policeman pulls me over
Caption: provided he could catch me and he says
Caption: why were you driving so fast and if I
Caption: say well I didn't know that that was the
Caption: speed limit do you think he's going to
Caption: care that I say that no it's my
Caption: obligation as the driver of a vehicle to
Caption: know the laws that apply it's your
Caption: obligation if you have a website or are
Caption: developing a website I know the law same
Caption: thing ignorant is no excuse so make sure
Caption: that you get help
Caption: we advise organizations that it's a good
Caption: idea to get a baseline audit of a
Caption: website so that before even if you're
Caption: going to redevelop the website or do
Caption: some changes find out what's the matter
Caption: with the current one before you start to
Caption: make changes get that baseline audit
Caption: done then if you're going to develop a
Caption: new website you know what things not to
Caption: mess up again while you're about it
Caption: don't forget about testing with people
Caption: with disabilities and remember seniors
Caption: not see not all seniors are going to be
Caption: comfortable with our websites something
Caption: that you've got a plan for
Caption: policy is changing people with
Caption: disabilities are becoming more and more
Caption: aware of what their rights are
Caption: disability organizations are getting
Caption: this information out the Australian
Caption: government state governments all
Caption: organizations are telling people with
Caption: disabilities that if you have problems
Caption: with a digital resource you need to tell
Caption: the owner of that resource that it
Caption: doesn't work for you give them the
Caption: opportunity to fix it so if I've had a
Caption: complaint go to the stranding Human
Caption: Rights Commission once it hits the
Caption: Australian Human Rights Commission I
Caption: can't change my mind
Caption: go to that user and say oh I've decided
Caption: to fix it after all it's too late then
Caption: because I can't talk to the user anymore
Caption: the Human Rights Commission takes that
Caption: over I'm now paying at least a q-see
Caption: rate to defend myself and make sure
Caption: whatever I've done to fix it is going to
Caption: be okay so if somebody comes to you and
Caption: says this doesn't work for me with my
Caption: particular assistive technology needs
Caption: fix it now can be a whole lot less
Caption: expensive than paying lawyers
Caption: opportunity to stand out from the crowd
Caption: the trend is now to embed accessibility
Caption: requirements in an organization's
Caption: disability access and inclusion plan
Caption: you'll find every level of government
Caption: will have one of these it's called a
Caption: deep disability access and inclusion
Caption: plan in there there is an area about
Caption: information the availability of
Caption: information to people and the
Caption: availability of digital information so
Caption: this is where it's covered in most
Caption: government departments if you're as
Caption: developers doing work for government
Caption: departments this is often where this
Caption: question will start to be addressed from
Caption: this is where you as developers and to
Caption: the arena you're going to be asked to
Caption: develop new digital materials to meet
Caption: these accessibility requirements and you
Caption: do it do you know what the requirements
Caption: are
Caption: governments have now just done as of
Caption: January 1st we have now introduced an
Caption: Australian standard up to now we've had
Caption: to rely on Australian Human Rights
Caption: administering the the DDA but we now
Caption: have something that we can kind of short
Caption: circuit court circuit that legal process
Caption: a little bit
Caption: it's called Australian standard a s 301
Caption: 549 then you can tell I've got that one
Caption: memorized I've said it so many times now
Caption: what that means is it's the European
Caption: standard of 301 549 so en 301 549 we've
Caption: adopted it as Australia lock stock and
Caption: barrel
Caption: we've got the whole thing we've brought
Caption: it in and we're going to make any
Caption: changes we need over time rather than to
Caption: take four years with a government
Caption: bureaucracy Department to write a new
Caption: standard
Caption: so we've adopted the European one
Caption: because it works and so what will happen
Caption: is that organizations can embed this
Caption: Australian standard in their tendering
Caption: documents so if you're going to respond
Caption: to a tender to develop some digital
Caption: materials you will now start seeing must
Caption: provide compliance statement with a s
Caption: 301 549 that is wicked to two level
Caption: chale keep hearing that same thing don't
Caption: you they're putting it everywhere so
Caption: that it gets through that is the
Caption: standard that you must meet so it's not
Caption: just government's though that can use it
Caption: if anybody even as an individual or as a
Caption: company wants to make sure that what
Caption: they pay for is accessible they can
Caption: embed that statement into their
Caption: tendering documents and say that we will
Caption: require a statement of compliance so
Caption: that means you're gonna have to have
Caption: some examples aren't you to prove that
Caption: you can do accessible work you will not
Caption: get federal government work they are not
Caption: allowed to give a tender to anybody that
Caption: does not complete a satisfactory
Caption: statement of compliance with a s 301 549
Caption: so if you're a developer you better
Caption: start reading on this and find out about
Caption: it state governments are putting that in
Caption: their tender documents too and so our
Caption: local government
Caption: everyone I work for I'm telling make
Caption: sure that's in there because that gives
Caption: them a legal standing to hold you to
Caption: account that what you're giving them is
Caption: accessible I was talking just recently
Caption: with an organization that provides
Caption: employment for people with disabilities
Caption: they had paid a huge amount of money to
Caption: somebody to create a website for them
Caption: that was to be compliant with WIC egg to
Caption: two-level Double A and one of my staff
Caption: members was down there doing some
Caption: physical auditing for Chris she's blind
Caption: for their premises and she looked at
Caption: their website and she said anybody ever
Caption: told you that your website's not
Caption: accessible it's kind of bad for an
Caption: accessibility organization well we just
Caption: paid a fortune to have this website done
Caption: there was no legal recourse for them
Caption: they had put in there that they wanted
Caption: it to be compliant but they had no
Caption: standard to relate to if they had put in
Caption: that compliant statement about a s 301
Caption: 549 it's the developer who would have
Caption: borne the extra cost of having it fixed
Caption: they just said sure we can do a website
Caption: to wick out two double-a didn't mean
Caption: they were going to but they could so
Caption: make sure that you understand what those
Caption: guidelines are
Caption: time to change our thinking but it's not
Caption: going to be easy so I'm gonna be looking
Caption: here a little bit of data for you on the
Caption: 2011 census not the one just recently
Caption: that we messed up so badly the previous
Caption: one 20% of the population registered as
Caption: having a disability that in some way
Caption: affected their education their mobility
Caption: or their employment that's 20% that's it
Caption: was almost 20% that's one in five
Caption: however that's the tip of the iceberg
Caption: because if I'm slightly dyslexic I
Caption: probably wouldn't have said I had a
Caption: disability if I have epilepsy but
Caption: because of the social stigma that's
Caption: attached to it I didn't want to put that
Caption: down I'm not in there I mean after all
Caption: and ten years since I had a seizure I
Caption: wouldn't consider that however if your
Caption: websites flashing at me it might provoke
Caption: one but consider the people who have
Caption: multiple low-level disabilities so say
Caption: I'm getting a little bit older English
Caption: is my second language and I've got a bit
Caption: of a shape to my hand so I find small
Caption: links hard to use I'm not in that data
Caption: if I simply am not comfortable using a
Caption: mouse I hand stuff but in that data if
Caption: as I said numerous things of my
Caption: eyesight's not so great or certain
Caption: things I find difficulty with
Caption: concentrating or I'm just you know a
Caption: little bit dyslexic I often think I am
Caption: I'm not in that at all it's actually
Caption: closer to 50% of the population require
Caption: some accessibility considerations in a
Caption: website can you afford to disregard
Caption: almost half of your users probably not
Caption: the other thing to keep in mind as well
Caption: is that when you look at two websites
Caption: very very similar in appearance one will
Caption: be accessible and one won't 100 percent
Caption: of people if asked we'll choose the
Caption: accessible version why
Caption: simple design elegant things work
Caption: to have buttons but if they don't tell
Caption: you what they are when you're tabbing
Caption: through it what good is it
Caption: I've tab through many forums and it says
Caption: edit blank wonderful what do I put in
Caption: there it hasn't told me if you can't see
Caption: the word name you don't know that that's
Caption: a label if you haven't coded it properly
Caption: which will bring us to something about
Caption: best practice coding that we'll look at
Caption: in just a minute
Caption: there's a famous quote the power of the
Caption: web is in its universality accessed by
Caption: everybody regardless of disability is an
Caption: essential aspect it's a very very famous
Caption: quote by Sir Tim berners-lee please note
Caption: both who said it and the fact that it
Caption: brings our focus to one of the most
Caption: important aspects of the web access by
Caption: everyone is an essential component part
Caption: of why it was developed so if you're not
Caption: trying to design for everybody you're
Caption: missing one of the important aspects
Caption: I love this picture our good intentions
Caption: good enough in the physical sense we can
Caption: see how ridiculous this wheelchair ramp
Caption: is the assumption is made obviously that
Caption: people with wheelchairs have somebody
Caption: that can help them over the lip but I
Caption: mean why do it in the first place it's
Caption: completely stupid have you ever seen
Caption: wheelchair basketball players do you
Caption: think one of them wants you to help them
Caption: over the lip of the wheelchair around if
Caption: you do a search in your favorite search
Caption: engine and look at failed wheelchair
Caption: ramps you will see some of the most
Caption: ridiculous pictures you've ever seen
Caption: anywhere slopes that just make you go
Caption: dizzy at the thought of even trying to
Caption: get down them let alone in a wheelchair
Caption: so thinking about the relationship to
Caption: the physical and the digital our
Caption: assumptions for digital accessibility
Caption: based on laziness ignorance or what why
Caption: aren't we meeting the accessibility
Caption: guidelines why aren't we designing
Caption: excessively there's a problem isn't
Caption: there
Caption: so who does accessibility actually
Caption: benefit as I mentioned everybody really
Caption: benefits from a more accessible website
Caption: but besides people with disabilities
Caption: there's older users people with mobile
Caption: phones you ever tried to fill out a PDF
Caption: document on your phone on the train
Caption: forget it it's not going to work very
Caption: well is it
Caption: people living in areas with lower
Caption: bandwidth so if there's a document that
Caption: they need to download and it hasn't told
Caption: them how big it is and how long it's
Caption: going to take they might prefer to
Caption: download that later on after they're
Caption: finished rather than to hang everything
Caption: up waiting for it now a simple matter in
Caption: the link of saying how big the document
Caption: is not rocket science
Caption: in some areas approximately twelve and a
Caption: half percent of the population are over
Caption: the age of 60
Caption: based on this previous census data again
Caption: and eighteen percent of the residents in
Caption: one of the local communities that I was
Caption: working with come from countries where
Caption: English is not their first language and
Caption: you say okay well you know English is
Caption: our first language you know do we need
Caption: to do that do we care about our users
Caption: yes we do
Caption: did you know that if you use the
Caption: abbreviation pH space and O for a phone
Caption: number which is really really common
Caption: it's pronounced for a screen reader as a
Caption: No
Caption: now if you have English as a second
Caption: language and you're listening on a
Caption: screen reader would you know what it
Caption: wanted when it asked for your for no
Caption: probably not
Caption: I'd have trouble with that
Caption: how does business benefit from
Caption: accessibility first of all you can boost
Caption: your user base by that at least 20% that
Caption: I mentioned the work that you do on
Caption: incorporating accessibility should more
Caption: than pay for itself we're not asking you
Caption: to spend a lot of money or an
Caption: organization to spend a lot of money
Caption: that there isn't a decent return on
Caption: investment or people who embrace
Caption: accessibility seldom embrace it for the
Caption: return on the investment normally
Caption: they're wanting to do the right thing
Caption: but it's important to know because their
Caption: shareholders as well that there is a
Caption: return on investment and if you spend
Caption: this money on designing excessively more
Caption: people are actually going to use your
Caption: website existing users are likely to be
Caption: a whole lot more loyal it's wonderful
Caption: public relations there is nothing the
Caption: matter in advertising the fact that you
Caption: have consulted and worked with people
Caption: with disabilities to make sure that your
Caption: website is inclusive of all of our
Caption: society advertisers scream up from the
Caption: rooftops people with disabilities are
Caption: not going to mind they would like to
Caption: know who's invested the money in
Caption: accessibility it shows that your public
Caption: spirited you've all heard that corporate
Caption: social responsibility terms this is an
Caption: essential aspect of it is the fact that
Caption: you care about all your users really
Caption: important
Caption: have people have the people who employ
Caption: you asked you how they can make sure
Caption: that their website comes up in the first
Caption: page of a Google search one of those
Caption: most common questions people ask I want
Caption: to come up higher in the list how can I
Caption: do that incorporating accessibility
Caption: principles into your design will boost
Caption: your search engine optimization so think
Caption: about things like heading structure
Caption: keywords search features sitemaps they
Caption: will all improve your search engine
Caption: optimization you can also embed
Caption: information in the metadata that
Caption: describes that this website is wicked to
Caption: double a compliant
Caption: top of the list
Caption: so as I mentioned organizations in
Caption: Australia spend huge amounts of money on
Caption: financial compliance but seldom spend
Caption: anything at all on accessibility
Caption: compliance they don't hesitate to make
Caption: sure that their physical premises are
Caption: accessible can you imagine having an
Caption: architect designed a building for you
Caption: that didn't have wheelchair access that
Caption: didn't have doors wide enough to get a
Caption: wheelchair through that didn't have
Caption: toilets for people that need disability
Caption: assistance you would never be allowed to
Caption: open the doors would you yet most of our
Caption: business is coming through our digital
Caption: shop fronts and we're not making sure
Caption: that people can get through the door
Caption: start to think about the digital
Caption: accessibility as the digital equivalent
Caption: of a wheelchair ramp you all understand
Caption: the need for a wheelchair ramp to start
Caption: to grasp the importance of digital
Caption: accessibility
Caption: are you understanding yet that there are
Caption: lots of benefits in designing
Caption: excessively there's tons the benefits
Caption: are both to you and to the website owner
Caption: if you know how to develop excessively
Caption: and you've got proof that you can you're
Caption: a whole lot more marketable than the
Caption: person who hasn't done anything person
Caption: who hasn't done anything is not going to
Caption: be able to work on government projects
Caption: we recently did a project for a local
Caption: government group and they asked us to be
Caption: on our tender on their tender panel to
Caption: help them select the successful tenderer
Caption: because accessibility was a key
Caption: component they wanted and so when it got
Caption: down to the final three they said okay
Caption: Vivian you're going to ask the difficult
Caption: questions because we want them to get
Caption: mad at you not us because we have to
Caption: work with them so they were all asked
Caption: for three examples of websites that they
Caption: had created that met wicked to to level
Caption: delay so the organization gave me the
Caption: three examples you know not one of them
Caption: even got to single a and not by a
Caption: country mile so how could they say they
Caption: were accessible when they weren't they
Caption: just thought well we do good work it
Caption: must be that's all I can think of is
Caption: that they actually thought they were
Caption: rather than telling complete lies and
Caption: then just for fun I decided to look at
Caption: the company's own websites as well they
Caption: were even worse there was no
Caption: accessibility provision in there yet
Caption: they were planning to tender for work
Caption: that was accessible we ended up choosing
Caption: an organization that looked like it
Caption: would be the best to work with that
Caption: would take on board what we said that
Caption: would learn and grow and be able to
Caption: produce accessible work but we're
Caption: talking about person we could not find
Caption: developers that could do what needed to
Caption: be done and I'd say that's a problem to
Caption: make yourself more marketable show that
Caption: you can have examples for your clients
Caption: that are accessible
Caption: so what actually happens if you decide
Caption: to do nothing first of all you better
Caption: understand the risks you've got the loss
Caption: of website traffic to your website risk
Caption: of litigation the loss of respect of
Caption: your customers users will go to a
Caption: company that has a more accessible
Caption: website so if you think of banking now
Caption: everybody who's working receiving a
Caption: pension or anything else needs to have a
Caption: bank account now don't think nobody gets
Caption: a cash pay packet at the end of the week
Caption: so people with disabilities this minimum
Caption: 20% of the population will open the bank
Caption: account with the website that works best
Caption: for them
Caption: that's how they're going to choose
Caption: whether or not they get a quarter of a
Caption: percent more or less is not going to be
Caption: the deciding point on their decision
Caption: because what good is that for two
Caption: percent if they can't use the website
Caption: we've probably all seen Bank websites
Caption: where in order to log in they've got one
Caption: of those rotating keypads that every
Caption: time you go to it the keys are in a
Caption: different position now I tried to test
Caption: one of those with a screen reader and I
Caption: wanted to throw my computer out the
Caption: window because I could go to the first
Caption: button and I could click it from my
Caption: first number but it wouldn't let me put
Caption: in my second number because I had
Caption: clicked something and I had to press
Caption: submit but if I press submit I haven't
Caption: put in the other three numbers I needed
Caption: and I had this vicious circle going
Caption: around my computer came about close to
Caption: going through the window and but the
Caption: funny thing is is when I called the bank
Caption: to complain about that what they the
Caption: person who answered the help was said
Caption: well actually I'm a person with a
Caption: disability I'm in a wheelchair but he
Caption: hadn't thought that he had a physical
Caption: disability but his thinking hadn't gone
Caption: beyond that to people with different
Caption: disabilities it's important to check
Caption: things not just technical compliance
Caption: checklists it's important to test things
Caption: with people with disabilities that
Caption: you've got a good well-rounded view
Caption: about how accessible your product is
Caption: I'm going to show you a few examples
Caption: coming up and hopefully you'll start to
Caption: get a bit more of an idea don't you love
Caption: this wheelchair wrap one of the best
Caption: I've seen you know really are you
Caption: kidding me can you just hear everybody
Caption: sitting you know the lawyers for the two
Caption: sides you know the property owner and
Caption: and the person who's just headed into
Caption: the creek they're slogging it out in
Caption: court
Caption: this is ridiculous isn't it the only
Caption: people who would have fun with it is
Caption: somebody who might be into wheelchair
Caption: extreme sports um and even then I'd be
Caption: wondering about them
Caption: here's another one it's not just the
Caption: steps the ridiculously steep slopes of
Caption: the ramps the crazy thing here is that
Caption: the sign is in the middle of the ramp if
Caption: I need a wheelchair ramp do you think I
Caption: can get out of my chair to move the sign
Caption: probably not so what were they thinking
Caption: I approach the building having been told
Caption: that you know there's a wheelchair ramp
Caption: but I can't use it you think you've done
Caption: the right thing in the design of your
Caption: product can people use it have you
Caption: tested it this to us
Caption: makes perfect sense that it's absolutely
Caption: ridiculous
Caption: the person with the wheelchair
Caption: approaching that business can't get in
Caption: so how difficult would it have been to
Caption: say right the sign on the ramp put a
Caption: sign off to the side somewhere that it's
Caption: for wheelchair access but the reality is
Caption: is if you saw a ramp wouldn't you know
Caption: it was for wheelchairs not saying
Caption: somebody else can't use it but that's
Caption: just completely ridiculous isn't it
Caption: a lot of the things that we do in our
Caption: website design are just as ridiculous
Caption: what good is having a button to submit a
Caption: form if it doesn't tell you what the
Caption: button is for the screen reader user
Caption: will hear button brilliant what do I do
Caption: with it
Caption: is it submit is it go back is it go what
Caption: if there's three buttons and they all
Caption: say button button button I'm not going
Caption: to do anything I'm going to leave your
Caption: website
Caption: I'm going to look at a few examples with
Caption: the permission of Disability Services
Caption: Commission this is some work they did on
Caption: one of their websites a few years ago
Caption: there's some really important principles
Caption: there's about six principles here that
Caption: I'd like you to watch as IDEO you'll be
Caption: able to have access to all of this later
Caption: they worked really hard on making sure
Caption: that they had some good design
Caption: principles in here first thing is is
Caption: that they've got a skip link go to main
Caption: content up there at number one now it is
Caption: a requirement that you either have a
Caption: good heading structure or a skip link or
Caption: some way to bypass repeated navigational
Caption: elements I was looking at a website
Caption: yesterday in order to get to the main
Caption: content I would have had to hit my tab
Caption: key 147 times the sad thing is is that
Caption: even if I had passed a skip link that
Caption: was there once I I think oh well here
Caption: it's probably just a couple of tabs
Caption: because you just see the top level but
Caption: it actually made me go through every
Caption: single sublevel escaped wouldn't work no
Caption: key would work to get out of it I either
Caption: had to close the website in which case
Caption: I'm unlikely to come back or I had to
Caption: tap the all the way through you should
Caption: at least be able to get out of it
Caption: shouldn't you escape key being action
Caption: for that would have done the trick but
Caption: it made me go all the way through so if
Caption: you have a skip link that is visible up
Caption: at the top all the time the user can
Caption: just go ctrl home I can use a skip link
Caption: to get past all of this easy done
Caption: next one clear focus at number two
Caption: you'll notice that where the keyboard
Caption: focus is and the most focus which should
Caption: be the same they have changed the
Caption: background so even if I'm colorblind or
Caption: I have low vision that's really easy to
Caption: see the focus indicator of isn't it
Caption: on this particular website down at the
Caption: bottom here there's support for a whole
Caption: bunch of different languages now as
Caption: developers what you're going to need to
Caption: do if you want if you're asked to put
Caption: something like this in is make sure that
Caption: you're using your HTML language element
Caption: so identify the language for each
Caption: section there's nothing worse than
Caption: hearing a Vietnamese person's
Caption: screenreader trying to read French or
Caption: Italian or something else it comes out
Caption: really really weird so the screen reader
Caption: needs to be told what language the
Caption: section is in they decided to do this
Caption: rather than to use the Google Translate
Caption: Google Translate itself is not
Caption: accessible so if you're putting in
Caption: widgets of things that are third-party
Caption: products that are not accessible be
Caption: aware that you will be held liable and
Caption: it will happen in Australia very quickly
Caption: as soon as somebody decides to test it
Caption: or all third party content on your
Caption: website it's not a get-out-of-jail-free
Caption: card a lot of developers think it's
Caption: third party I can't fix it therefore I'm
Caption: not responsible if you host it on your
Caption: website you will be held responsible
Caption: massive grocery chain in the US just got
Caption: sued for this they were using American
Caption: Express for the payment portal and
Caption: Google Maps for their store locators
Caption: neither of which are accessible in their
Caption: in their standard form they have to be
Caption: fixed so they were held liable for that
Caption: the next item is event warnings now
Caption: you'll notice just here that it says
Caption: email this page new email window will
Caption: open
Caption: that's not hard to do is it if it's a
Caption: document tell them what format it is and
Caption: how big it is
Caption: sufficient color contrast is important
Caption: control over the media is important
Caption: and everybody use what you create in the
Caption: cold case it was all about the user
Caption: journey now coals were taken to court
Caption: the user wanted to use the calls website
Caption: and it didn't work they had done a
Caption: refresh they had broken the delivery
Caption: button and the payment button so they
Caption: could spend all their time putting the
Caption: groceries into their cart but they could
Caption: neither organize delivery or payment the
Caption: user contacted them asked them to fix it
Caption: they decided to ignore the user
Caption: completely and the so she went to
Caption: Australian Human Rights lodged a
Caption: complaint it was in all the media Cole's
Caption: refused to fix it for the stallion Human
Caption: Rights Commission even though what they
Caption: were told that they would probably be
Caption: sued it ended up in court
Caption: Cole's decided to settle out of court
Caption: for an undisclosed sum of money and
Caption: promised to make sure the website was
Caption: made accessible and never to do that
Caption: again um but they still had to fix it
Caption: it's not an either-or
Caption: how much effort are you going to put
Caption: into making what you develop accessible
Caption: are you starting to see that it's
Caption: actually worth the effort that you put
Caption: in think about things like keyboard
Caption: accessibility screen reader
Caption: accessibility sufficient color contrast
Caption: for those who are become blind not
Caption: hovering flickering content which might
Caption: provoke seizures making sure content
Caption: doesn't move without controls
Caption: link's need to make sense in context and
Caption: out of context in this particular
Caption: example if you asked for a list of links
Caption: which is what you would get there on the
Caption: left and you heard IMG one you think
Caption: you're going to action that link no
Caption: because you don't know where you're
Caption: going
Caption: in this example here all of the links
Caption: have the same text Government Gazette W
Caption: a wonderful which one do you want if you
Caption: wanted the one for July 2008 you can
Caption: have to listen to the whole table til
Caption: you hear that date users not going to do
Caption: that
Caption: people need to be able to enlarge the
Caption: text you need at this ad with wicked -
Caption: you need to be able to enlarge text 200%
Caption: so you don't lose functionality or
Caption: visibility of it in this case the
Caption: carrots or the container was made with a
Caption: fixed size rather than relative so it
Caption: didn't move to accommodate the larger
Caption: text in the next iteration of wicked
Caption: which is 2.1 the requirements actually
Caption: 400% in other words stop using fixed
Caption: sizes
Caption: look at the color contrast here even
Caption: with good vision that's hard to see
Caption: isn't it
Caption: and then there's a gradient
Caption: almost unusable for everybody
Caption: what about this example if you're one of
Caption: the 10 of 1 in 10 minutes in the world
Caption: are colour-blind you're not going to be
Caption: able to use that but that's not the only
Caption: situation the fact is if I've got a
Caption: screen reader or blind or low vision how
Caption: do I get that information about where
Caption: that block of buck is we need to have
Caption: some alternative text content don't we
Caption: so that we can describe for the user
Caption: where that is don't assume that people
Caption: with disabilities don't purchase
Caption: products buy cars take holidays all the
Caption: rest of it they do
Caption: in this example you can see some of the
Caption: colors the same so you can probably
Caption: figure out where that came from
Caption: there's been no alternative text applied
Caption: to any of those images so all the person
Caption: would hear would be either image and
Caption: nothing or image and a URL that we all
Caption: know some of them that can go on for
Caption: lines and lines they aren't going to use
Caption: it it's not going to tell them anything
Caption: images that have information or convey
Caption: feeling must have alternative text
Caption: describing to people what it is
Caption: if you're putting video on make sure
Caption: there are text transcripts make sure
Caption: there are captions preferably make sure
Caption: you've got sign language okay what we've
Caption: got today because Christy is signing for
Caption: me today when the video goes together
Caption: this signer will be available on the top
Caption: corner of the video so people that are
Caption: deaf are going to be able to get the
Caption: information at the same time why do you
Caption: think there aren't a lot of deaf people
Caption: going to conferences how are they going
Caption: to get the information so deaf people
Caption: are going to actually be able to use
Caption: this video and get the information but
Caption: we should be catering for that we should
Caption: be having more things signed because
Caption: everybody matters
Caption: we need you to be an accessible
Caption: developer we need you to make a
Caption: difference you will get selected for
Caption: assignments because of your ability to
Caption: create inclusive websites don't you
Caption: think it's time to stand out from the
Caption: crowd
Caption: we're often asked to help organizations
Caption: pick a developer our advice to you is to
Caption: have evidence of your ability your
Caption: capability to do an accessible website
Caption: show people that you know how to do it
Caption: be ready to show prospective clients
Caption: better yet have your evidence tested so
Caption: when they look at it you say actually
Caption: I've had this verified that this is
Caption: accessible wouldn't that tell a lot to
Caption: your customer about how you value
Caption: accessibility there's a few common
Caption: pitfalls one of them is people saying
Caption: they can do things they can't if you
Caption: can't do it or you don't have the
Caption: experience and tell your customers don't
Caption: say it's completely compliant when it
Caption: isn't but you might want to tell them
Caption: that you will work to make sure that
Caption: everything is compliant no matter how
Caption: hard that is that's going to show that
Caption: can-do attitude that would have helped
Caption: us when we were choosing a developer
Caption: please don't fall into the trap of using
Caption: automated tools and some of you that
Caption: were in the session on mobile testing
Caption: might have heard me yeah a little mouthy
Caption: about that automated tools will never
Caption: replace human beings okay and please
Caption: don't fall into the trap of relying on
Caption: those watch out for third-party content
Caption: there's some challenges ahead of you and
Caption: nobody can deny that
Caption: designed so that everyone possible can
Caption: use the great digital product that
Caption: you've created designed for
Caption: accessibility using personas create
Caption: checking with experts those will all
Caption: help you accept the challenge embrace
Caption: the challenges that are ahead of you
Caption: make sure you're designing for
Caption: accessibility
Caption: remember people don't have disabilities
Caption: they all have capabilities we're the
Caption: ones that disabled them by putting
Caption: obstacles in their path bit by bit we
Caption: can make a difference by removing the
Caption: obstacles accessibility matters let's
Caption: unlock the web thank you
Caption: [Applause]